.\" Manpage for endlines.
.\" Contact vivek@nixcraft.net.in to correct errors or typos.
.TH endlines 1 "27 Sepember 2020" "1.0" "endlines man page"
.SH NAME
endlines \- convert text files line ending conventions
.SH SYNOPSIS
endlines ACTION [OPTIONS] [FILES]
.SH DESCRIPTION
endlines smartly converts text files from and to the following line ending conventions : Unix/Apple (LF), Windows (CRLF) and legacy Apple (CR).
.PP
No need to know about the source files' convention. Hidden files and directories are skipped by default. Binary files will be detected and skipped by default, according to a filter based on both file extension and file content. Files' last access and last modified time stamps can be preserved. UTF-8 files, UTF-16 with BOM as well as all single byte encodings will be treated well. However, UTF-32 is not supported (files will be seen as binary and left untouched). Whether converting or checking, a report is given on the original state of line endings that were found.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS ACTION
.TP
.B lf, unix, linux, osx
convert all endings to LF.
.TP
.B crlf, windows, win, dos
convert all endings to CR-LF.
.TP
.B cr, oldmac
convert all endings to CR.
.TP
.B check
perform a dry run to check current conventions.
.SS [OPTIONS]
.TP
.B -f, --final
add final EOL if none.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
silence all but the error messages.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
print more about what's going on.
.TP
.B --version
print version and license.
.SS [FILES]
.TP
.B -b, --binaries
don't skip binary files.
.TP
.B -h, --hidden
process hidden files (/directories) too.
.TP
.B -k, --keepdate
keep last modified and last access times.
.TP
.B -r, --recurse
recurse into directories.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B endlines check *.txt
Check current conventions of all text files.
.TP
.B endlines linux -kr aFolder anotherFolder
Convert line endings to linux, keeping date, recursive, within aFolder and anotherFolder.
.SH AUTHOR
Mathias Dolidon
.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation <https://github.com/mdolidon/endlines>
